			   "Evoloops.java"

 Evoloop simulator with event-driven birth/death detection mechanisms
		    (Java application version 0.2)
	    CA updating algorithm much improved 09/22/2004

			    Hiroki Sayama
			 Associate Professor
		  Department of Human Communication
		 University of Electro-Communications
			   1-5-1 Chofugaoka
		      Chofu Tokyo 182-8585 JAPAN
			sayama@cx.hc.uec.ac.jp


		 Copyright (c) 2004 by Hiroki Sayama
			 All rights reserved


This Java application simulates the evoloop CA and analyze their
evolutionary dynamics in full detail of their genotypic and phenotypic
identities, results being presented at the ALIFE IX conference, held
in Boston during September 12-15, 2004. A monitor of 1024x768 or
higher resolution is recommended. The software was developed and
tested using Java(TM) 2 SDK Standard Edition Version 1.4.2, which can
be downloaded from the Sun Microsystems website (http://java.sun.com/).
You may need to recompile it on your platform to run it correctly.
Any suggestions or bug reports will be appreciated.

The event-driven detection algorithms used in this application were
originally developed by Chris Salzberg and Antony Antony at the
Section Computational Science, University of Amsterdam, the
Netherlands.

This application is intended for demonstration only, and thus does not
include features of genealogy tracing that were used to produce the
results presented in our publications.


Note: This application is believed to work correctly, but no liability
is assumed to me for its use or for any damage resulting from its
use. You may not use either this application or the results gained by
using this application for any commercial purposes without
permission. You may use, distribute or modify this application without
permission for academic purposes.


Below are quick comments on the structure of the software and how to
use it.


1. FILES

This directory contains the following files:

  README	    (this file)
  Evoloops.java	    Java source code
  *.class	    pre-compiled java class files
  *.img		    spatial image (or configuration) files of various ancestral loops
  rule_evolvable    a set of state-transition rules for the evoloop


2. HOW TO USE

To start up the simulator, simply type "java Evoloops" on your
terminal. You can operate the CA updates using the "Start/Stop",
"Step", and "Reset" buttons. Every newborn loop is automatically
detected during CA updating, and its internal sheath structure is
marked with a color that is associated to its species index.

There are a couple of text fields to change the settings:

- "Interval" specifies the interval of redrawing CA configuration
  graphics. With longer intervals you will get faster simulation
  speed. This may be changed during simulatin runs.

- "Space Size" specifies the length of an edge of the square CA space.
  Boundary conditions are always assumed periodic for now.

- "Ancestor" specifies which image file is used as an ancestor. You
  can also create your own loop yourself with any text editor. The
  format of image files is obvious; take a look at some *.img files
  and you will see.

The text area shown on the right hand side indicates the current
population composition, with full information about species ID, size,
gene sequence and number of individuals, of each species.


In any case, I believe that the user interface of this application is
fairly simple so that you can learn how to play with it by yourself.
So, give it a try!!



For more information see:
Evoloop Website:       http://complex.hc.uec.ac.jp/sayama/sdsr/
Artis Project Website: http://artis.phenome.org/
